# tactiq.io free youtube transcript # Applied Materials Problem Statement: Key Concepts & Q&A Session # https://www.youtube.com/watch/AA5Wb9FUACc But we'll take the questions uh at the end of the session. So just wait for it. Okay, we'll start. Now we already have some participants joining. Um okay. So good afternoon everyone. Uh again on behalf of hackathon 226 is organizer part of uh semicon India uh and all the partners and organizing team I welcome you all. um to the knowledge and Q&amp;A series of the hackathon 2026 again organized as a part of semicon India. Uh the hackathon is organized by semiindia uh with our strategy partner ISA uh industry partners KA and applied materials academic partner um VIT and implementation partner IOC. So thank you all for joining today's session. Uh just a brief background about what Semicon India is. So Semicon India is a premier platform bringing together uh global semiconductor leaders uh companies in um uh industries, innovators, um experts um for the growth of India's uh semiconductor ecosystems um and it promotes a collaboration of emerging technologies uh opportunities across the complete semiconductor value chain. So we have global uh partners like applied materials uh part of this hackathon who have provided the wonderful problem statement for you guys which is again um real problem statement uh associated with the semiconductor uh domain and we are trying to get solution from you guys uh for the same. So to today's session is particularly important because uh this can be a final um uh session for uh knowledge transfer or uh explaining your key concept behind the problem statement. I'm given a session for phase one submission which u has the deadline of 16th of August. So we encourage all participants to use this opportunity to clarify uh your technical questions uh validate your approach and like uh like better understand the expected solution and submission requirements and um we like sincerely thank you um applied materials and team user for uh pre presenting the problem statement um explanation in previous session and today again guiding uh on the key concepts and taking on the questions. So today's session will focus on um what are the key concepts related to the problem statement what if you have any questions you can directly ask and get it clarified. So again today uh I'd like to like introduce our today's speaker um Arush Rhino sir he is senior algorithm manager at um applied materials uh thank you for sir uh joining and uh I won't take much time to uh talk about uh I'll I'll give the stage to you to uh start with session. Yes. Um thank you Sab. Uh in the chat uh somebody would like to can express like if you want me to present the problem statement again for first 5 minutes and then start it. Uh somebody who has not joined the last session say just yes or no. Uh that will basically help us. Uh because I will jump on this advanced concept today. Uh so if do you want me to uh repeat the problem statement once uh say yes. Okay. Okay. Let's interest of everyone. Let's uh do that once again and then quickly we'll okay we'll rush it. You can uh if you still have some open questions about the problem statements please revisit uh the previous video. Okay, I'm just trying to give a brief here so that you can understand the next concept which we are talking today. Okay, so what we are trying to say that it's a pure image processing problem. Today we will talk in depth also and uh let's say the problem here is like we on a wafer if you see image on right or or illustrative example here you will have a pattern of dice and in this there is a reference and over there in reference you grab one image then you try to you go try to go to a another die and basically you want to grab on the same location another image and see whether the pattern pattern is same. So the one which is marked here star is basically is the actual uh reference pattern which we feel like it's a good it's a good printed uh pattern and we want to make sure that the other dies are also printed equally well but the wafer is mounted on a stage and because of some uh thermal expansion or maybe some vibrations we don't land up exactly at the same place. we we have generally an offset in this image. It's bigger but in generally we have a small offset. Uh so as a result we missed the basically the target. So we want to recorrect ourself and reposition ourself at the right location. So in order to do that we first we don't take a high resolution image at the new location. We take a big image here and in that search this particular target and then go and take a fresh grab at the revised location which is at the high resolution for example. So let's say this pattern when we will go at a new location we want to search for this pattern we will take first a big image zoomed out and then we find the pattern and we'll we'll go okay yes I have to take a big image at this location and then I will zoom in and take a hunt. So what we are saying is you have two zoom modes and one is 100x and one is 10 x. So 100x is left side. You have a reference image which is which is the star image. You want to find out that image in the bigger area and then once you find it you will take an enhanced image. But our aim is in this problem statement is just to find the image. Okay just find the right location. So more examples, you're trying to find the patterns on the left in a densed view or maybe a compressed view or you can say zoomed out view uh on the right side and you have to find it closer to the center. Okay. So you can it can be present in any way any places you are supposed to find it closer to the B center. So this is what you have in case more than one tile is matching you find something which is closer to center. I hope problem statement wise we are clear. And um in the expected solution we are expecting that you create a synthetic data set which is actual like the images which I showed you with DM and finet style. So these are CPU and memory architectures which are very close to what we use and uh after that you start adding some noise characteristics. So today session we will talk about one and two. Okay. And uh the we leave it to you if you want to use a classical or deep learning method and try to basically report. I would like encourage to people try both methods and uh see how these methods and learnings will play out and after that once you have a method you try to basically create confusion metrics and try to give us uh okay what how good is your uh accuracy. Okay. So for example um on the image in the right side if you find it at a location you could be one pixel wrong or two pixel wrong here. Maybe you compress it and find it. It may be one pixel or two pixel wrong and in that case you have to report how much is your pixel error. Okay, because you will create the image you know that okay what was the right location and when you place it uh we'll come to know okay what is uh how much is the new position what is the new position here so you will anyhow give the code for creating the data also to us so we can recreate the data and we know that okay what is your ground truth and what is uh the image where exactly it should basically best position where it can be registered I'll show more examples today which will be more clear Okay, we gave some reference uh literature to you which you can use to basically generate data and I will show you today how I use this literature to create data for today and I will share my repo also for your uh cases. Um yeah so m I think so most of the first part is we should be accurate second thing is the computation part I think so most of the challenging part people should focus is that to do it right computation time will come is like secondary if it is like say both are like one is 1 second another is 1.2 in 2 seconds for us both are equal but if it is like one is 1 sec 1 second and another one is like 1 minute or 2 minutes or 5 minutes that is something which is very heavy network it is something very costly so I think so computation time focus on it but don't overoptimize your code first focus on accuracy part okay and uh metric part also I mentioned that uh you should have this study we want you to give this study that okay if I add noises is how my precision is falling okay or accuracy is falling generally the PR curve is something which is standard in uh such problems and you should see that how how good is my precision when I try to do it uh summation format I think so it's clear we will talk more about it uh if required but u as of now we want you to focus on right augmentation and then on results this is something which is key enabler if you don't have right data to show your val how much how good your algorithm is, you will not be able to achieve good results here. Okay? Because if you because we will test it on our data also and I will present the data today like a sample data which I can share which is doesn't have a customer uh intellectual property but it it is close to what we expect the solutions. Okay. So I guess this is uh from our side. I will share to sort of the scoring part which which Scoros team uh will basically help uh us to evaluate all uh code and maybe this utility code you will also get from me. I will place it in uh the repo. Do we have any questions at this stage? Yes. Sentil is saying yes we'll talk about it it's good that you can uh locate the target but today you will see the advanced targets okay so let's see okay so whatever I had shared in presentation were very simple cases they had no noise in it so today I will be talking about I placed one repo on uh for you on uh this link I will share this repo contains the slides also which I will talk mode and also it contains the app. Okay, it contains an app which is you you can extend on it, build on it and try to make more synthetic data. Okay, so today I will uh talk more about uh the synthetic data generation. Let's spend few minutes uh yeah 16. Okay, let's talk 20 10 20 10 to generation. I want to first tell how we are generating it. It's my approach and maybe later you can extend it and try to see how is your data on the similar lines or not because our evaluation data set would be starting at this level somewhat at this level. Okay. So the problem statement is very clear. You find the recover the position after the navigation strip. You have to we give you reference in search image and you have to give us the x x and y coordinate closest to the center. Okay, this is sorted. We know that uh both are,000 pixel by,000 pixel. In in the zoomed in image, we have 1 nanome is 1 pixel. 10 nanometers is uh is one pixel. In the search image, field of view is same for them. Uh it's computed from the above two. Sorry, field of view is bigger. it's uh not same uh only the image size is different. So image size is same and pixel size is different. As a result the field of view is also different. Okay. So now I try to create some samples based on some calculations. You can read through the document also it's on uh and you will understand more. you can feed it in Gemini or claude or uh any codeex any architecture and see uh get more knowledge about it. Um so I simulated both memory and u logic CPU uh finfet architectures with different uh size of the structures. So for example this is one of the structure it has let's say two or three layers okay and u it has like uh this is a memory cell DM cell and this is how it looks by design and if you see some polygons we are shrinking some polygons we are expanding okay and uh this logic is there in the repo. So if you see now this is this will look like uh your somewhat like this will look like your reference pattern. Ideally this is not rel this is not how exactly the pattern looks like but the structure gray level somewhat is similar uh to actual patterns uh which you you have we have seen okay so this is a zoomed out image and um and now on this area I'm just cropping randomly okay and uh so there are many versions on it we are trying to simulate I will show in zoom in versions also you will get to No. So I have created let's say some couple of areas and I will talk about it like how it looks like. So in every area has uh different resolution. Some of them are 10, some of them are seven, some are 14, 22. So then I can take samples from each area and try to find my pattern there. I'll show you how it works. Uh okay. This part I will let's talk about later. Uh so one part which concept which we discussed is is like u scaling also like some polygons will appear smaller or bigger. So you can increase or you should have a method to increase or decrease so that you can play with more data. Uh so for example uh you will have in some of the images the polygons will be bigger but on the right side of the image where you have to search polygons could be of the right size. So how do you comp even if you're compressing you have to account for that scaling part we'll see more uh there is another aspect in noise which we talked about is like a stigmatism you may uh get images which are like blurred and you may have to correct them which filters you will need to before search in the image. So if you see your image can get blurred. Uh this this is the math behind it. I guess most of us are most of you can read about it and if you are aware it's excellent. Some of the noise will be short noise functions. You we will add some short noise to it. You can see from uh the image uh how it will be look like uh the images which are uh having high dose will have higher short noise compared to the lowd do ones. Uh then uh yes this is okay. Then you can also have some angle. Uh this is like uh some drift and jitter. So how do you account it? This is too much. I would say one to two°. Uh somebody had asked for rotation. I limit it to 1°ree or 2°. But I'm just telling these are the stress test. First of all, your elbow should uh work on simple cases and then you are keep on adding stress and then show me the PR curves how it looks like. uh there could be also uh the parallel distortion you don't have to do this is too too complicated I don't expect in first version uh we'll not test you give you that but yes you will have some gamma on the right that means some patterns on the right side on the corners will get collapsed then you can have charging artifacts uh that means you can have these kind of lines in between which can interfere in your registration to find the peak so how do you correct them uh so yes I guess uh there could be cases uh so now what will be a problem for example this is my left image it is very clear and this is not actual image I'm taking a zoomed in area of uh this one so if I take one node of it and try to see how this node will look like on the right side if you see you will get something like this it is too bad so you will you have to basically work on pre-processing to some extent to register it right okay when you down sample it you will basically lose out many function many things um then yeah I think so this more or less I'm done this is what we expected so once you add no you have low noise you will have better then you keep on adding more and more noise and then you see how your PR curve is uh appears and uh maybe this chart may not be how you see you will see in compared to how you the one I showed in the initial slide but I guess most of the things you have covered let's see the demo and then we will come to we'll talk more from the demo side but this is more of a theory I don't want to talk most theories because it will be very boring so let's see what we want to do this is a very excellent utility you have it in uh uh I have this may work very slow if you try to do on uh uh on hugging face. So I'll say that uh try to not to use hugging face and try to clone the code. You can clone it. It's public and try to run it like I'm running it locally on my system. Okay. So let's see what uh what do we have here and let's see what we can play with. Um so this is a small case. Let's say if you say that I'm what I have done is uh first created the entire pattern using this resolution. Okay, very big resolution very big image and then I compressed this image to this format and out of that I have from the original image I know that this is how my pattern looks like and then I have added noise to both of them. So, so let's say in this case I created first image with pixel and then compressed it 10 times. So I will get a image like this and on from the original image I will crop in the same area. So I will get something like this. So this part as noisy but over here it's like uh still manageable. Now how much noise I can this is a this is a classic starting page. At this stage if I start adding feature scale how does my image change. Okay. So you will start seeing some changes on the images. Uh you see some of the nodes are compressing some of them are increasing. You can start creating different images seeing uh how scales will matter. Uh based on different scale I have some images from the same pattern. it will start rendering them and showing you here you can see the background code how the scaling part is handled uh let's zoom refresh again and the same DAM uh 1x version let's say I have let it load please yeah so I have a family of different patterns okay you can have a sample from the same sample you can have different patterns Why it is so slow? I'm sharing that's the reason. comma. Yeah. So now it gave a different region. So you could what I'm trying to say here is you can create one master image on the right side and create many reference tiles whom you are searching so that you can have more experiment data to play with. This is one good strategy which you should try. Okay, I can add some noise. Let's say I can add uh some on this pattern. If I want to add some noise, I can add this pattern and then see how my registration will look like. So if you see now the reg the image has lot of noise compared to the original image. Different type of noises noise are there. You can also have charts on it. Right? So there was a question like my code is working with regular ML. Is it working with this kind of data? This is also you have to see okay because we'll give this kind of evaluation data set uh something similar like this to and on that validation data set you can test and you will have this data. This data set I'm making it public for you. you can change create things stabilize yourself. uh from this I'm giving you one augmentation method another thing let's say we want to go back and uh in this also you have many things let's say let's say you have so many of them I won't like to show you finfet 14 so if you see how finet 14 will look like so it's like almost like for every you have let's say 10 variants here for every variant you have uh almost like 10 samples so you have nearly 100 samples straight away as a baseline on that you can create more more uh simulate more thing add noises and try to create huge data set if you want okay uh so in this case uh let's see uh see over here this is a different data set different structure now if I change uh some sort of a pattern collapse here see what will happen let's make it bigger So idea here is if your structure line is very very small let's say it's less than 10 pixels then what will happen is that line will disappear on this pattern. So you have to account for it. So for example a line like this which is so thin if it is less than 10 nanometer it will not show here. So how do you account for it? Can your algorithm account for it? Uh then you have spot size like spot size decides how good your resolution is. If my spot size is big, my structures will also look different. You see they will start looking bigger and blurred. Okay. And can you account for it? Generally same setting is applicable for it's not like that I will add uh different settings for different I will try to keep both the images on the similar settings but I can add some noise models to different one of them okay u there could be uh acquisition noise I will refresh it and then we'll do it Okay. Okay. So, let's say I want to add some uh drift or shear some angle. So, your search image will start having some angle here on the pattern. So you can uh start seeing those things once you will uh once you deploy it you will start observing the paxel that okay yes this is how you can also run some sort of a basic algorithm maybe somebody must have done it. So you can run that and see that okay what is your registration looks like compared to original one. Okay. So, so if you they see that it predicts this actual distance is like this. It made a two pixel error because of the noise. Okay. So, two pixel error means it's like 20 nanometers error on the right side image. Okay. Uh this is interesting. You can play with this uh corner rounding. So, you will start seeing more corner roundings on the patterns on the on this one. See if you see these patterns will become more corner rounded and if you run ZNC again uh it will show something barrel I have given here some distortion but let's say if you add it barrel as will show you here in this image it work it can be you can do one degree 2° but it's like two it's I'll say let's keep it out of scope because it is uh different you have to do some fine transforms to basically correct Okay. Uh let's say gamma. Gamma will basically you will start seeing on darkness on the right on the edges. See uh it's sh more sharper uh how you want the contrast curve. You can also do a gamma correction in your code as a block. add a block. Um, okay. Yeah, you can add some charging streaks. Let's say these lines which will show some uh um you can say which can happen. I'll refresh it and show because of the gamma it's not showing. So this is just a reference. We not saying that use this code or use this pattern. Uh but this will help you to understand that your elgo where it has gaps. Okay. So if you see now in this case uh when you are adding some uh charging streaks or some big lines lines intensity zero sorry I think now if you have so many charging streaks in both and now if I try to do how much is my accuracy it will it should drop. See one pixel drop. You start seeing it. This edge is very good. That's the reason why you are getting the illustration. But if this this pattern we are not touching, we've had searches somewhere smaller pattern. This edge would have lost because of this edge. If this edge was not there, you could have made an error. Um you can have more salt and pepper noise. uh and uh speckle noise like you can have this kind of noise. Okay, now it's still registering. So you see how the pattern looks like very nice when very nice to look like it's actual same image but actually it's becomes more challenging to uh in such cases to do the registration. If you have a very dominant pattern you will still find the right location. Let's say in this case intentionally I gave a very big pattern but I encourage that you don't rely on this pattern. keep it on the corner or somewhere like if you take such big pattern it will this itself will correctly but when we will give you the test data uh it will not have this big pattern it will have uh something different you can have a you can basically play with this uh to basically have your own pattern and so I if you see I'm condensing the pad strips now make it more and more smaller So in this case uh the error is high but it is error is high because of the y because there was nothing in y side it was registering to but how closest to the center you create that that is uh this could be an uh data set issue but uh it xide direction it did a good job is was able to find it in within one pixel one and a half pixel. Okay. So this is like a this is something like a base correlation method. You will have to do a step up. You'll have to find something more accurate and to sub pixel and how you do it. It's uh we leave it to you to design the pipeline. There are many fields to play with it. I created this for uh you you basically you can see how your seed should be how you want to create uh your style how you want to create the images you want to compress some increase some of them and then you can compare it also with your simulation uh previous so you you can use this utility to create some sample data first of all understand it how it works what is there inside what you can take what you can ignore and how you build things on because I felt like most of the people uh most of the students or participants have were thinking like how we can have the data sets but now I've given you a utility with which you can create almost like the noise levels are almost similar what to what we will give okay so now you can focus more on the algorithm side how would you find my given pattern inside it. Okay. So now let's say I wanted to take some questions. Senil said sir actually with Python script I'm able to locate the target in search. Is it mandatory for training am? No. uh ML is not training ML means using deep learning model right maybe deep learning model is not uh not uh basically if you don't want to work with deep learning model it's okay but if somebody can come with deep learning model and fast and it is good actually it's giving better results or good results I would encourage it we would like to see different approach uh also because doing All problems with classical ML model could be challenging. So can you please share this PDF? Everything is shared. I will paste it here the link. No something. Okay. By I think so most of you have been must have searched it also by now. Uh so slides are also there in the slides folder. Um sir missed last session whether okay this sort of is already answered. Well share with it on which platform we can simulate this project. You can do it on local. You can do it on your local like I'm also running it on local right. It's a python program running on streamlit. You can do it. It's not so complicated. Gun. Uh, can we reuse retrain models? Can we use pre-trained models? Okay, Ganesh is asking, yes, you can use pre-trained models. You can use uh uh Dinov2 kind of models. You also gave data set. No this is this data set is not uh for evaluation I think so what we want to say [snorts] when you are creating a data set let's say I'm asking 30 images from you 30 that data set for every image you have to tell what pairs you generated so let's say this pattern let's say one category could be you can divide your data set let's say I am focusing I added matism to my data how my images will look like with that. Okay, this is one area. Then you can add similar way you can add many many options uh like I was showing here in the images. These are your one of the reference point like some of them you added a stigmatism some of them you did add gamma some of them you add speckle noise but at the end if every image is looking same your anchor your both left and right images are looking same it is no not uniqueness you will have to create unique patterns like I created some unique patterns in the slides initially then I created some more unique patterns we would like to see how you read and create data can you generate data and Anyone who is working on algorithm problems should understand how to create data also. How what is the right data for an algorithm where to basically test it like whether it will work or when it will fail. This is more very important. If you just show cases which are very simple and algorithm can solve it and it fails on the cases which we will give it will not make sense because it is then it is just tuned to your approach or tuned to your data. Yeah. So be very creative in terms of data. We're giving just a platform some tools to play with it. But underlying how the patterns should look like is we leave it to you. That is your creativity. How you want to add the noise. how how close you want to. How would you challenge some that okay I have a repeated pattern in many areas but this is my place and it can it has this for every image you should be able to explain that why this is a good pattern to search uh and against something very normal. If you can give that kind of answers for at least some samples of what you are sharing it makes good. We would like to have a showcase that how good images students have created using augmentation. Okay, this is our goal. That's the reason why we are giving you all tools for it. Okay, then sir, do we have to create a web app for demonstration simulator? No, no, no. You don't have to give you have to just for every data set images you're creating you will have some with the images you will have some metadata which is explaining or maybe you can have one common uh some kind of a HTML slide like I was showing which explains every every so unique about this pair let's say reference and uh the search pair and how how are the what exactly you did uh for every slide so every basically every pair that will basically help us to understand that how challenging cases your pro your algorithm can solve. Okay. Then the question cames and then does always search image will have a defect always there is no defect as such but yes if the search image uh for example let's say in general let's say if you are focusing on something very far okay and there is a point there is some object in between you may lose the focus on background for example If you see this is the image on this the focus will go on the first this is the most prominent pattern in this case there could be a prominent pattern which is more bigger focus may go here as a result these tiles will get noisy if you see these will get noisy just like normal camera like you have it will try to focus on areas which are more prominent or more Z direction it has more lift so they will basically you will get some areas in background and you will have more noise in them so As a result, the search image, you should expect the search image would be noisy. Uh because because we assume that something which is taken at a very close shot, you don't expect too much noise in it. But on this one, we expect noise. You can add noise on this, it's good. That is maybe it's an imaging issue. But in this case since the resolution of structures has be so small you will tend to have more noise because when the you can say electrons are falling you will have distortion you will have so short noise is coming in and then you can also have a scaling issue because of how the data is collected back from when the electrons fall it fall on. So you can read something about it that will give also some idea that okay how these noise models work on sim images uh web app no this this is not required gorov PDF uh late meeting how to get late to the meeting how to get the information okay so you will have recording so the images you gave are drawn DM style but not looking real image but do we have to image real central I think so what you have asked if you see now this is Adding this kind of noise will make it closer to same image. So this is how it looks like more. Okay. The example which we started may not be very clear but uh so now the ones with these uh you can say this package you can create something like this. Okay. Why do you sorry you now when you say highly periodic region do you expect a reference to have multiple visually identical show or should be there be always a sub subtle distinguishing feature see some cases you can add a periodic uh pattern for example uh in the image which I showed you let's assume this is the right pattern from where it has been drawn somewhere on uh this pattern no this pattern no this is more or less unique but maybe if there was a line here it could have registered in let's say this pattern also somewhere here if it was something on this side because both of them have a similar uh I can say density ratio pack but what we expect in d cases is like your algorithm will somehow know that am I close to center and try to pick closer to center we are saying for simplification to find it close to center but in future maybe we'll be giving it with respect to point K so point K could be anywhere but for this hackathon we are saying to make it closer to center simplifying it okay so you gave us the tile which is closest to the matching to the center maybe this pattern is present here here on top right everywhere but uh it's selected here I'm not sure why maybe the right pattern right place could be Okay, which is more closer to the center. Um accuracy would be calculated to reference bounding coordinate also is there ideal data set size. Um reference to bounding box accuracy will yes if you see accuracy should be always you are the creating it as you are the one who is creating. So let's say if I say what is my ground truth I know from where my search image has from where this image has been taken because I created a bigger image first and then compressed it down and from the bigger image I have cropped the area. So I know from where I have cropped this area and then I have condensed added noises and then try to figure so we have given you an approach. This is one of the approach like I create instead of creating 1,000 by,000 image I create this image as it like this which is on left and then reduce it 10 times. So then I will have image like this and image on this and then I have to search this and this is so it becomes much more you're very sure that where your ground truth was from where you have cropped. This is one way of doing it. You can try many other ways. this I'm trying to help you with uh some which is like bottlenecks or maybe some small small things which are limiting you to the focus on the main problem. So these things will help you to focus on the core problem on the algorithm side not on uh you're not stuck on the data set. So now you at least you have a starting point with which you can create data sets and you can focus on main on the problem part. Uh sir can you explain confusion metric at to left point or to the predicted top left point. Okay. Um well let me check the problem statement like in the in the statement where we said yes 0 0 is top left. Okay. So yes, so what we say you have uh a data set and uh for which you had a image pair left and right for which you add a ground truth and then for every image you are adding let's say a case you are adding more noise to it. So what as soon as you will add keep on adding noise we would like to see how good is your algorithm accuracy can does it know how to den noiseise it for example this is a chart so we expect that when your when your uh noise levels are very low okay then at the time you will be very closer to where the actual ground truth was you will be able to find the location but as soon as you start adding adding more and more noise to it. The functions which we have are given the examples you will start make your algorithm may start adding some errors. Okay, maybe one pixel, two pixel like we were seeing right now. So we expect that it should fall and but if you can den noiseise it and still maintain a high good PR curve then it's nice but how much error you can make. Let's say if it's one pixel, you will make 10 nanometers error because one pixel on the right image is register one pixel right, you already have made a 10 10 nanometer error. If you make 1 to 5 pixel then uh 5 pixel that means 50 nanometer error has come. So this image it's like almost like 50 pixels you are registering at the wrong location. when we'll go and take an image ideally in idle case we will have some error there. So in a nutshell in a summary I'll say that you try to add noise make edges so blurred that you can have a problem to basically solve that okay you have nearly four five pixels on this image where algorithm can go wrong so that we can see how much error you have made but it's just a range okay uh it's not like you have to create data set which has uh you have to create a case where your algorithm shows five pixel error if your algorith algorithm is good. It will not make five pixel error. It will stay between 1 to 2 or 3. Okay. Uh I think the terminologies wise you may be confusing but when you will work with and try to read about it it's a very uh interesting problem to solve and it's not like that you cannot solve it. Like people have asking me questions I feel like they've already solved some base version. So others can also do it. Yes. So but the evaluation said one pixel cut of high confidence score. Uh so what we will say is like Bascar is saying yes you're right Bascar. So when I say that you are making three pixel error but my cutff is like one pixel. How you do it on one pixel? How you do it on two pixel? How do you do on three pixel? That will help me to evaluate that okay basket your algorithm how robust it is. Even if I give a noisy image, you can still do better on one pixel error. Uh sir, can you please create show us optical microscope images RGB? We'll have to create those for you. Uh Mandep and um I we have images but uh those are customer images. So you can search on Google also. Uh not sure I should try searching it. You could did you try a search in Google? I think so. There will be some images. something like uh you can expect something like this. This is a good starting point. You can search for relative images. This is also one good image. This is simulated. Ideally, it will look like uh this one, this one. Okay, such patterns. This is very zoomed out. Yeah, this is like very zoomed out. Can't open these links. But uh it's like you will have some small pattern which you want to search and this is a very big image in which you are searching it. So yes, so you can have a look like this uh on internet and try to see can you create synthetically also such images maybe it's like a good place to start but uh ideally you will not have this resolution you will have very very these will collapse like this is very uh you can say very clear case okay but on the right side when I say the image I feel like uh it can register to it it is a RGB part but uh how did you achieve it because to me everything looks same like uh how did it find it because it's so much repetitive nature here and um and plus the structure size is not justified like it's like it's uh in you will have some images like in the way I showed you it's like there's a difference between two microscopes and so you will more better circuits and something like this. Uh, okay. um Bhaskar I I don't think so like a test data set let's assume at this stage for the evaluation we will guarantee that at least uh will have to reg you will get to registration okay it's not like uh it you you can you we expect that this if the pattern is there then only it will basically you can get registration as the score will be very poor sir what should be the ideal data set size as I said you it's depend upon your algorithm you decide you are the owner of your problem you decide that okay I need I have to test this my alco I'm appro I have some approach in mind I will test these these cases I will have repeated patterns. I will add this size polygons. I will try to make make my shape which is like uh which is uh which will I will make them structures let's say so small that they will not appear on the right side. How then how will I search it? Can I add some pattern which can affect my algorithm in uh and create new sense uh misregister or not let the existing algorithm can ch you can challenge the algorithm approach why AI tools and tell ask itself that okay why it will fail in what cases it will fail make data sets around that try to make it fail then fix it and uh justify that data set okay yes this is a data set which I this image pair had this problem and I overcome it uh in my algorithm such cases are also handled in my approach. That is the right way of approaching a machine learning problem. So you you we it will it will not always happen that we have one data set and we have a clear problem to solve. So we will give as I said as we committed earlier that we will we had given data set. I will try to request team members to basically see if we can generate something OM also for you. But as of now, I feel like this is a very good starting point uh for you uh to start. Okay. Uh how will you test on data set if you train model on or not data set? No, the format is same, right? The image is same. So your image I'm giving you one reference. I'm asking you I'm giving you search image pair and I'm telling you that this is my ground truth. Can what is what as per your LGO is a ground truth. If you spot on match on that then uh we can compare the you can say the difference and see that okay how how good are you on the pixel level error okay so got I think so it's clear right it's like you are creating two images you're testing your algorithm or model you create your model algorithm to on two images right we are also giving you two images with this input we giving you this input okay and with that I can compute the predicted versus actual I get the dis I get the difference with that I can come and look okay how much error is coming okay um see it's uh what when I'm sharing this data to you the idea here is it will help you uh not don't feel like uh you should don't feel like it's very complicated it's like it's getting you are getting enriched with this information now most of the overhead head which you had till 16th was to create data. This will basically save you some days and you can focus more on right solution. Okay. So see it as a input from our side that it's helping you to in basically show uh progress faster on the solution side and evaluation side. What else uh I had in mind? Yes, I wanted to cover some questions which was given to me. So in the 10x zoom ratio between reference and image, image always had 10x in the actual data. Could it be slightly 9 to 11? Yes, very relevant. As we said, you can have a scaling or you can have a distortion which can basically slightly vary to simulate the real optical not optical in this case same but it's a not a drift but it is uh more on uh scaling. Uh a polygon is scaling or up or down. Okay. uh what is expected accuracy between the actual location and search image location found by train model. So accuracy would be like not we will range it between 1 to 5 pixels see where you fall where your algorithm falls and let's say I we start with very liberal approach okay with five pixel error how many cases do you pass if you pass all of them very good we'll reduce it by four pixel see how many of them passes then we make it two pixels one pixel and then sub pixel how many do are they passing so the this curve will help us to see where actually uh so let's say there could be some if I keep it let's say five pixel for all there could be some people who are doing sub pixel also so they should be getting rewarded more so and on the similar lines if I make it very strict everybody will start failing it may happen that if I say it's.5 pixel only one or two sets corner cases are passing and others are failing so so that's the reason why we have given a range of 1 to 5 y pixel that basically will respect entire audience and we'll come to know where most of the spectrum is lying that how uh how the solutions are positioned which solutions are giving better sol accuracy and which are giving uh in terms of so this gives a wide range to evaluate to everyone and it's a fair uh evaluation does having more data set count as a plus point because we have more data set as 30 as I said more data set you have it's good for you you can have hundreds of samples like the way we have given See which data set you will get more marks. So see why that data set of that image pair when I say data set is like one image pair what you have done differently in that image data set which brings it very challenging for to solve f by others. Okay. So this way if you create 30 sets those 30 sets will be actually very good uh to evaluate on them. But but every image should have first of all like from visually we can see how it looks. Uh but you should basically tell that what actually how you created that image what was the process behind it. If you have that in every for every image or data set and metadata to that that is the right way to get evaluated for the data sets part I have a doubt in data set or of patterns are always highly periodic finfet may not be uh but the image you will see generally it may have some cells or some nodes which will look like periodic uh because in finfet also you have uh repeating structures and dam also you have repeating structures uh You can read more about them how fet or dm nodes are appeared. So you will have transistors uh c uh pos and cos. So it will basically enos and pos and so you will see basically how how in pairs the structures repeat. Same for dam you have cells how cells will repeat. So that's the reason why we generally say it's periodic. uh and that's where you have to find some pattern on the corner to basically register it right like we had a pattern here uh if we don't have this pattern here so then it becomes hard for you uh to register because if I give something here it can register here here here many places and then in that case you have to register nearest to the center so so you will re arrange it somewhere here which is very close to the center okay Uh what is expected accuracy? No sorry I've done what is localization tolerance defined as a correct uh position a prediction. I guess this we have already covered in terms of pixel error. You should does the include rotation slide scale beyond the stated 10x ratio. It may have one or two degree rotation. It can have scale as we shared today. I have a doubt in time complexity. I move I solve the problem with the time complexity of analog. Okay, log CPU maybe you are doing against NC Ross correlation and you will be parallelism so that time execute reduces central approach I think so time complexity is a secondary thing you have better ways to do it you should basically read more about it this is also a welcome approach CPU but first metric I'm again saying will be in terms of pixel level accuracy okay Um, okay. Yes, adding so CSV we have a slide. Uh, this slide was shared to you. This is how your CSV will look like. W search image path. This part GT and GTY. This is how you should your CSV and you should have output GTX and GTY output Y and output output X and output Y and uh you can give that output and after that you can create confusion matrix this utility we will give you okay it's very small utility I will post it in the same uh repo which utility you can use uh and everybody will have same format um It will help sort of steam also to evaluate in a fair manner. Sir suppose reference images matches with two sorry I messed this call up s uh so if it matches it's good case don't uh scrap it out again try to basically make sure that it is closer to the center one the one you are catching is closer to the center okay it's a it's can happen a this is okay you can happen more than two places also. Okay, that's it. I think so I have covered all the questions. I'm sending here the link to the my hugging face repo. Please go over it. There could be bugs in repo by I accept it and let me know if there are bugs. Uh we can correct it. However, uh at this stage it's very explanatory. you can go over the repo uh try to play with it, try to learn from it. Okay? And uh it will surely help u for you. Okay? >> If you need more sessions uh or maybe some more help, ask sort of we'll see what best we can do. But I think so if we have one more session we will solve the problem also with you which I don't want [laughter] because I have already solved some part of it for you in this session. >> So it will not be fair to the other team uh which is solving uh uh diffic different channel. So >> we wanted to you to be engaged in this problem statement. That's the reason why we wanted to assist you with the data set creation so that it doesn't become uh a limited to you to attempt this problem. >> Yeah. Actually, so now they have uh ample time to spend come up with the good solution. What are the requirements have been mentioned to be fulfilled uh regarding the CSV? So they can add the CSV in the GitHub repository. I hope that's okay. >> Right. uh I will give the scoring utility code also uh to sort of and sort of probably next week also we will try to give some evaluation method uh which is like closer to your 16th timeline. So >> yeah yeah yeah okay >> yeah we need we'll have a discussion on that yeah >> yeah and whatever other questions are we'll take it >> go it's you know by now the end of the session what is easy what is medium and what is hard right if your algorithm is passing on it it's easy if it is not passing it's medium or or if it's doesn't have a clue at all that okay where to register it's hard mandep it's uh in the same hugging repository The PP is there uh the slide section what I talked about there's a previous PPT which uh we've already shared uh to Sor and he must have shared it with you all guys. >> Yeah it is made available on the landing page so check it thoroughly also when you register you get an email with all the details. So >> all all details are there on the landing page under the problem statement >> you have download section here. >> Yeah. So we I was able to make this utility yesterday night. You'll see most of the commits were our 10 last night only and uh what I'm trying to say to you have immense power from the coding tools at your disposal disposal. Try them work with them learn with them. This is not it's only a few hours of job and it brings you to a level. I understand there's experience also involved but what I'm saying is within you try to aim for uh checkbox all the items which we have mentioned in the evaluation. >> Yeah. And uh we will also share the current web right sir. Uh so >> the current what you >> uh the >> the [clears throat] current PPT in the link which I have shared it contains a slides folder and in the repo side and that uh index html is there. >> Okay. Okay. Uh we will copy the link and keep it for the reference. We will add it to landing page. >> Yes. Yeah. All right. So I again thank you uh Aishir for answering all the questions explaining the problem uh statement again and like helping students to go on the right path almost solving the problem for them. Uh and I hope you enjoyed it. >> Yeah please thumbs up if you like understood most of that and that will give us confidence that okay yes this session was useful to you. Okay good. Thank you all. Thank you. Okay. So dear participants. So like uh please use the insight shared today. Review problem statement tech all technicalities build your solution and don't wait for the last day to submit. Try to submit as early as possible uh before the deadline. Uh so make sure so that makes sure that your solution is submitted on the time and in uh accurately submitted. So check all the links, check all the repositories, make sure it contains all the requirements uh as stated. Yeah. And the session recording will be made available uh on the landing page also. Go check. We have a webinar section mentioned in the landing page where you will see the previous se uh previous webinars also. Once this meeting is over, it will also be made available on the landing page. Also, you will receive an email um for the recording. So again on behalf of all the organizing team SMI ESA applied materials KA VIT and I4C I express sincere gratitude to ASUS and applied materials team for supporting the participants throughout the hackathon. We are we have more journey to cover of this hackathon. >> Yes. And thank you everyone to uh actively participating in the uh Q&amp;A session asking good questions getting um participant in the hackathon most important uh because this is kind of a national level opportunity to you to apply your knowledge learn some skills uh of the um like the prominent industry of semiconductor uh showcase your skills uh during the grand finale. Yeah, that's it. >> Good luck then guys. Uh hope for the best. Thanks S for arranging it. >> Good evening. >> Yeah. Thank you. Bye. >> Have a great evening. Thank you. Thank you sir. >> You you guys too. Bye. >> Yeah.